Using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle to Gather Data From the "Edge of Space."
WINTER JOSEPH GUERRA
Mentor: THEODORE THEODOSOPOULOS

## Outline: ##

Abstract:
	Since I had first been introduced to the field of amateur unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), I’ve always wanted to build one myself. Although I wanted to build my science research project around this goal, I did not want to simply recreate what others had already done. I wanted to build a UAV from scratch that would not only help me improve my engineering skills, but also serve some greater purpose. Hence, a radical idea began to take shape: could our research team design a UAV that could gather data from the edge of space? 
	Taking stock of the numerous technological advances pioneered in the burgeoning field of amateur high-altitude ballooning, it seemed quite possible for our team to design an aircraft that would enable us to log video, temperature, location, and altitude data up to heights as high as 30km by utilizing the lifting power of a weather balloon. However, we would still have to manually search for, and recover the aircraft after it returned to earth – perhaps after having drifted more than one hundred miles away from the original launch point. Could we design an aircraft that could travel to the edge of space, but then autonomously return to its original launch location?
	Theoretically, using cheap DIY programmable avionics, it seems possible for our team to construct an autonomous UAV that uses a high-altitude weather-balloon to enter the stratosphere, before gently gliding back to its starting location using a small glider airframe, autopilot, GPS, and magnetometer. Fully realized, this type of data gathering UAV could drastically reduce the effort necessary for retrieval while also providing our team with stabilized video not possible using currently existing high-altitude video capture methods. Currently, our team has proved successful in sourcing the avionics needed for autonomous aircraft navigation, and have also managed to research and develop various preliminary designs of various subcomponents of the vehicle such as the airfoil, bus design, and camera subsystem. 


Executive Summary:


Introduction:


Project Goals:


Preposed Methods:



Design Process:




Results:


Next Steps:

